docs(messaging): Added custom xmpp server documentation example (#3873)
invertase/react-native-firebase: docs/messaging/usage/messaging-with-xmpp.md

---
title: Messaging with XMPP

> description: To send and receive messages directly from devices with FCM requires you to create and deploy an XMPP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Send and receive FCM messages directly between devices & your server with a XMPP server.
```

---

## Introduction

> This is a reference for using the Firebase Messaging service. Although methods are provided for sending and receiving message, additional configuration is needed to ensure a working solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a reference for using the Firebase Messaging service to send and receive messages directly between devices. Although methods (e.g. `sendMessage()` are provided for sending and receiving message, additional configuration is needed to ensure a working solution for direct messaging from devices.
```

Just trying to be super clear that this is only for one type of messaging

> > A custom solution is needed to exchange messages between devices (including the message sender device)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> A custom solution is needed to exchange messages directly between devices (including the message sender device)
```

same as above - just trying to be super clear

> > A custom solution is needed to exchange messages directly between devices (including the message sender device)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A custom solution is **only required** if plan to exchange messages directly between devices (including the message sender device)
```

> please ensure a solution from this article has been configured to successfully send and receive messages from a device.

The following describes how to set up a server to handle messages, including...

- A custom XMPP server with XCS for receiving messages.
- Firebase admin for sending messages.

So what are we going to do?

1. Send a message from a client device.
2. Intercept using a custom XMPP server.
3. Push the message to Firebase using firebase-admin
4. Receive the message and acknowledge on other connected devices.

> ## Why can't I send and receive messages?

Reviewer: This section could cause confusion, it says non of these listeners will acknowledge a message or error - but they do? And also these methods work for non device to server communication so I think the distinction needs to be cleared up.

Alternatively just have this step show how to do `1. Send a message from a client device.` as per your bulleted points above, rather than all the extra bits.

Author: I see what you mean. It is is possible, however to use sendMessage() along with their listeners and for nothing to happen.  A few use cases have appeared where users are simply putting sendMessage and expecting to receive (all on the client)

Author: I prefer to leave section 2 in as directly addresses that use case that people are struggling with, what do you think?

Reviewer 2: There have been issues as @dackers86 says, it's a valid point. If it's confusing I'd address language vs delete it then. I'd push it and directly solicit the folks that had the issue with a request for changes to make it clear (aka "merge and open for community PRs" ;-) ) but then I am assertively trying to engage others as an attempted style, with mixed success, though an encouraging amount of success

A common instance involves an implementation similar to the following.

```js
firebase.messaging().onMessage(message => {
  console.log('Received a message');
});

firebase.messaging().onMessageSent(message => {
  console.log('Sent a message');
});

firebase.messaging().onSendError(message => {
  console.log('Received an Error');
});

firebase.messaging().sendMessage({
  data: {
    foo: 'bar',
  },
});
```

Although correct, none of the listeners will acknowledge a `message` or `error`.

Permissions are limited on the client meaning an additional solution is required to communicate between `FCM` and any connected devices.

## How do I receive messages?

> This is where a custom server based on Node XCS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is where you will need to deploy a custom server based, for example one based on Node XCS
```

Below is an example of how to configure a custom XMPP server using `node-xcs`.

```js
const Sender = require('node-xcs').Sender;

async function operation() {

>   return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {

Reviewer: Not sure why this is a promise, nothing inside the body calls resolve or reject?

>   return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return () => {
```

    console.log('Listening >>>');

    // Enter firebase credentials here. {SenderID, ServerKey}
    var xcs = new Sender('XXXXXXXX', 'XXXXXXXX');

    xcs.start();

    xcs.on('message', function(messageId, from, data, category) {
      console.log('received message', messageId, from, data, category);
    });

    xcs.on('receipt', function(messageId, from, data, category) {
      console.log('received receipt', arguments);
    });

    xcs.on('error', e => console.warn('XMPP error.', e));

>   });

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  };
```

}

async function app() {
  await operation();
}

app();
```

## How do I send messages?

> An ability to post to firebase with the correct permissions, for this we can use `Firebase-admin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For sending messages we can use the Firebase Admin SDK.
```

---
title: Messaging with XMPP

> description: To send and receive messages with FCM requires additional steps to ensure listeners are correctly working.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: To send and receive messages directly from devices with FCM requires you to create and deploy an XMPP server.
```

Author: Updated

> ---

Reviewer 3: Missing previous & next tags

Author: This was based off a custom example under usage called `messaging/usage/ios-setup`.

Should all pages have this, I made the assumption it was a one off page and wouldn't include navigation?

Reviewer: Still needs fixing & @dackers86

Author: Added usage and installation as the previous and next links

> This page demonstrates how to send and receive messages through a custom server. This will have to be deployed separately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page demonstrates how to send and receive messages directly from devices through a custom XMPP server. The XMPP server will have to be deployed separately.
```

> - Please note: A common issue found when using Firestore Messaging is that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Please note: A common issue found when using the sendMessage() API in Firestore Messaging is that
```

- messages can only be received unless sent through an `XMPP` enabled server.

To give an example in your app, using `messaging.sendMessage()` will result in your FCM message been acknowledged by the server, however none of the client listeners will not be able to receive the message.

> Below is an example of how to configure a custom server using `node-xcs`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is an example of how to configure a custom XMPP server using `node-xcs`.
```

Author: Added

```js
const Sender = require('node-xcs').Sender;

async function operation() {
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    console.log('Listening >>>');

    // Enter firebase credentials here. {SenderID, ServerKey}
    var xcs = new Sender('XXXXXXXX', 'XXXXXXXX');

    xcs.start();

    xcs.on('message', function(messageId, from, data, category) {
      console.log('received message', messageId, from, data, category);
    });

    xcs.on('receipt', function(messageId, from, data, category) {
      console.log('received receipt', arguments);
    });

    xcs.on('error', e => console.warn('XMPP error.', e));
  });
}

async function app() {
  await operation();
}

app();
```

> Using the events above you can then send messages, this will trigger the listeners on the devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you deploy the server above and configure FCM to send to it, then you may use the sendMessage() API, and this will trigger the listeners on the sending and recipient devices.
```

```js

> const admin = require('firebase-admin');

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this part of the example has to do with the sendMessage API()?

All of my proposed edits above are based on the *assumption* (maybe wrong!) that this whole thing is because sending messages from devices (which implies sendMessage() API use) requires an XMPP server, which you demonstrate with the node-xcs example chunk.

Is there any involvement of firebase-admin then or is it just the devices and the XMPP server?

If my assumption is wrong my whole review / batch of suggestions is completely wrong

Author: Thanks @mikehardy. Suppose I am trying to figure that out in the draft. 

firebase-admin is still need for users to receive a message in the example listeners

Author: I've added an additional draft, any input is welcome on how to write this as I understand it covers a lot of manual setup and understand...?
